Adding ESFM system/insedit docs (#24)
LTVA1/furnace: doc/4-instrument/fm-esfm.md

# ESFM FM synthesis instrument editor

the ESFM FM editor is divided into 6 tabs:

- **FM**: for controlling the basic parameters of FM sound source.
- **Macros (OP1)**: for macros controlling FM parameters of operator 1.
- **Macros (OP2)**: for macros controlling FM parameters of operator 2.
- **Macros (OP3)**: for macros controlling FM parameters of operator 3.
- **Macros (OP4)**: for macros controlling FM parameters of operator 4.
- **Macros**: for the macro controlling operator 4 noise mode and other macros (volume/arp/pitch/pan).

## FM

ESFM is four-operator, meaning it takes four oscillators to produce a single sound.

unlike most four-operator FM synthesizers, however, ESFM does not have an algorithm selection. instead, it uses a fixed operator arrangement, but allows you to independently control the output and modulation input levels of each operator. this allows it to reproduce a few common four-operator algorithms, as well as unique combinations where operators act as modulators and carriers at the same time.

these apply to the instrument as a whole:

> - **OP4 Noise Mode**: enables special noise effects for operator 4 (0 to 3).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **OP4 Noise Mode**: enables special noise effects for operator 4. range is 0 to 3.
```

  - these are normally used for the drum channels in ESFM's OPL3 compatibility mode.
    - however, in ESFM, operator 4 can be modulated by operator 3, whereas in OPL3 drum mode the rhythm channels cannot be modulated.
  - note: usage of noise mode 3 ("Top") is discouraged for now as it's not properly emulated yet, and results may change when the emulation gets fixed in the future.
- **operator routing preview**: shows how operators are connected with each other and with the audio output (at the bottom).
  - left-click pops up a small "operators changes with volume?" dialog where each operator can be toggled to scale with volume level.

>   - right-click to switch to a preview display of the waveform generated on a new note:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - right-click switches to a preview display of the waveform generated on a new note:
```

  - this modulation scaling factor is applied after the previous operator's TL and envelope scaling have been performed, but is unaffected by OL above.
  - a change of one unit is about 6 dB.

### table of OL and MI values for obtaining common algorithms

note: MI1 is not included as it is the feedback level.

| algorithm                      | OL1 | MI2 | OL2 | MI3 | OL3 | MI4 | OL4 |
|--------------------------------|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| OPN algorithm **0**            |  0  |  7  |  0  |  7  |  0  |  7  |  7  |
| OPN algorithm **4**            |  0  |  7  |  7  |  0  |  0  |  7  |  7  |
| OPN algorithm **6**            |  0  |  7  |  7  |  0  |  7  |  0  |  7  |
| OPN algorithm **7**            |  7  |  0  |  7  |  0  |  7  |  0  |  7  |
| OPL3 algorithm **1**           |  7  |  0  |  0  |  7  |  0  |  7  |  7  |
| OPL3 algorithm **3**           |  7  |  0  |  0  |  7  |  7  |  0  |  7  |
| OPL3 algorithm **1** (variant) |  0  |  7  |  0  |  7  |  7  |  0  |  7  |

### fixed frequency mode

each operator has a Fixed Frequency mode. once enabled, the operator runs at the specified frequency regardless of the note.

## macros

> these macros allow you to control several parameters of FM per tick.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these macros allow you to control several parameters of FM on each tick.
```

Slightly clearer language (I hope?)

Author: This was copypasted from the OPL page, but I totally agree.

## OP1-OP4 Macros

most parameters are listed above.

### envelope delay macro tricks

due to a quirk in how the envelope delay feature works, the **Envelope Delay** macro can control the operator's key-on status for a limited amount of time after a note is played. a value of 0 represents key-on, while a value of 7 represents key-off.

note that the macro cannot exceed 659.1 ms in length - anything beyond that will be treated as a value of 0.

### operator arpeggio and pitch

> among the available macros are **Op. arpeggio** and **Op. pitch**. these work like the **Arpeggio** and **Pitch** macros featured below, but are applied individually over the operator, overriding the **Arpeggio**/**Pitch** macros respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
among the available macros are **Op. arpeggio** and **Op. pitch**. these work like the **Arpeggio** and **Pitch** macros featured below, but are applied to the individual operator, overriding the **Arpeggio**/**Pitch** macros respectively.
```

Reviewer 2: I would also add that despite them overriding main instrument pitch/arp macros, they still obey tune/detune settings set in FM tab

## Macros

- **Volume**: volume sequence.
- **OP4 Noise Mode**: controls special noise effects for operator 4 (as described before).
- **Arpeggio**: pitch sequence.
- **Panning**: toggles output on left and right channels.

>   - note that each operator also has its own pan controls, which get masked by this global pan control.

Reviewer: Sorry, this seems a little unclear. Masked how?

Author: For instance, if an operator is set to only output on the right channel, and you set the global pan to only output on the left channel, it'll mask all of the operators' pan controls with the global pan setting - hence that operator that was set to output on the right channel won't output on any of the channels.

Reviewer: Now that you explain it, it seems a lot more obvious. I think this language will work fine!
